Added Azure.Storage.DefenderCloud (#2240)
Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure: docs/en/rules/Azure.Storage.DefenderCloud.md

---
severity: Critical
pillar: Security
category: Data protection
resource: Storage Account
online version: https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure/en/rules/Azure.Storage.DefenderCloud/
---

# Enable Microsoft Defender

## SYNOPSIS

Enable Microsoft Defender for Storage for storage accounts.

## DESCRIPTION

> Microsoft Defender for Storage provides additional security for storage accounts.
> 
> Protection is provided by:
> 
> - Continuously analyzing data and control plane logs from protected storage accounts.
> - Malicious scanning by performing a full malware scan on uploaded content in near real time, leveraging Microsoft Defender Antivirus capabilities.
> - Sensitive data threat detection by a smart sampling method to find resources with sensitive data.
> 
> Which allows Microsoft Defender for Cloud to discover and mitigate potential threats.
> 
> Security findings for onboarded storage accounts shows up in Defender for Cloud with details of the security threats with contextual information.
> 
> Microsoft Defender for Storage can be enabled at the resource level, but the general recommandation is to enable it at the subscription level and by doing so ensures all storage accounts in the subscription will be protected, including future ones. However, enabling it at resource level can be done to protect a specific storage account or  apply custom settings to a storage account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft Defender for Storage analyzes data and control plane logs from protected Storage Sccounts.
Which allows Microsoft Defender for Cloud to surface findings with details of the security threats and contextual information.

Additionally, Microsoft Defender for Storage provides security extensions to analyze data stored within Storage Accounts:

- Antimalware scanning of uploaded content in near real time, leveraging Microsoft Defender Antivirus capabilities.
- Sensitive data threat detection to find resources with sensitive data.

Microsoft Defender for Storage can be enabled on a per subscription or per resource basis.
Enabling at the subscription level is recommended because it protects current and future Storage Accounts.
However, enabling at the resource level may be prefered for specific Storage Account to apply custom settings.
```

## RECOMMENDATION

> Consider using Microsoft Defender for Storage to protect your data hosted in storage accounts.
> Alternatively, use Microsoft Defender for Storage for all storage accounts within a subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using Microsoft Defender for Storage to protect your data hosted in storage accounts.
Additionally, consider using Microsoft Defender for Storage to protect all storage accounts within a subscription.
```

## EXAMPLES

### Configure with Azure template

To deploy storage accounts that pass this rule:

- Deploy a `Microsoft.Security/DefenderForStorageSettings` sub-resource (extension resource).
- Set the `properties.isEnabled` property to `true`.

For example:

```json
{
    "type": "Microsoft.Security/DefenderForStorageSettings",
    "apiVersion": "2022-12-01-preview",
    "name": "current",
    "properties": {
        "isEnabled": true,
        "malwareScanning": {
            "onUpload": {
                "isEnabled": true,
                "capGBPerMonth": 5000
            }
        },
        "sensitiveDataDiscovery": {
            "isEnabled": true
        },
        "overrideSubscriptionLevelSettings": false
    },
    "scope": "[resourceId('Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts', parameters('StorageAccountName'))]"
}
```

### Configure with Bicep

To deploy storage accounts that pass this rule:

- Deploy a `Microsoft.Security/DefenderForStorageSettings` sub-resource (extension resource).
- Set the `properties.isEnabled` property to `true`.

For example:

```bicep

> resource defenderForStorageSettings 'Microsoft.Security/DefenderForStorageSettings@2022-12-01-preview' = {
>   name: 'current'
>   scope: storageAccount
>   properties: {
>     isEnabled: true
>     malwareScanning: {
>       onUpload: {
>         isEnabled: true
>         capGBPerMonth: 5000
>       }
>     }
>     sensitiveDataDiscovery: {
>       isEnabled: true
>     }
>     overrideSubscriptionLevelSettings: false
>   }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource defenderForStorageSettings 'Microsoft.Security/DefenderForStorageSettings@2022-12-01-preview' = {
  name: 'current'
  scope: storageAccount
  properties: {
    isEnabled: true
    malwareScanning: {
      onUpload: {
        isEnabled: true
        capGBPerMonth: 5000
      }
    }
    sensitiveDataDiscovery: {
      isEnabled: true
    }
    overrideSubscriptionLevelSettings: false
  }
}
```

```

## NOTES

> Some of the features included in Defender for Storage is in preview.
> 
> Currently only the `Blob Storage`, `Azure Files` and `Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2` service is supported by Defender for Storage.
> 
> - When the plan is already enabled at the subscription level and the resource level override property `overrideSubscriptionLevelSettings` value is `false`, the resource level enablement will be ignored and the subscription level (plan) will still be used.
> - If the override property `overrideSubscriptionLevelSettings` value is `true`, the resource level enablement will be honored and a dedicated plan will be configured for the storage account.
> - If there is no plan at the subcription level, the resource level enablement will be honored and a dedicated plan will be configured for the storage account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule is not processed by default.
To enable this rule, set the `AZURE_STORAGE_DEFENDER_PER_ACCOUNT` configuration value to `true`.

The following limitations currently apply for Microsoft Defender for Storage:

- Malware scanning and sensitive data discovery are preview features.
- Storage types supported are `Blob Storage`, `Azure Files` and `Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2`.
  Other storage types are not supported.
- When Microsoft Defender is enabled at subscription and resource level, the subscription configuration will take priority.
  To override settings on a Storage Account, set the `properties.overrideSubscriptionLevelSettings` property to `true`.
- If there is no plan at the subcription level, Microsoft Defender for Storage can be configured without an override.
```
